docs: add ADR 063: core API ADR + update app wiring ADR (#12972)
cosmos/cosmos-sdk: docs/architecture/adr-061-core-module-api.md

# ADR 061: Core Module API

## Changelog

* 2022-08-18 First Draft

## Status

PROPOSED Not Implemented

## Abstract

> A new core API is proposed to replace the existing `AppModule` and `sdk.Context` frameworks a set of core services
> and a new `Handler` struct. This core API aims to:
> - be simpler,
> - more extensible
> - and more stable than the current framework
> while also
> - enabling deterministic events and queries, and
> - supporting event listeners
> - and [ADR 033: Protobuf-based Inter-Module Communication](./adr-033-protobuf-inter-module-comm.md) clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new core API is proposed to replace the existing `AppModule` and `sdk.Context` frameworks, a set of core services, and a new `Handler` struct. This core API aims to:

* Be simpler
* More extensible
* More stable than the current framework
* Enable deterministic events and queries
* Support event listeners and [ADR 033: Protobuf-based Inter-Module Communication](./adr-033-protobuf-inter-module-comm.md) clients
```

## Context

Historically modules have exposed their functionality to the state machine via the `AppModule` and `AppModuleBasic`

> interfaces which have the following shortcomings:

Reviewer: I don't know what this means? I recon you could argue they expose their functionality via Keepers. The `AppModule*` interfaces are really more app wiring UX primitives.

Author: Maybe "state machine" isn't the right term. They expose their functionality to the SDK framework/BaseApp with these interfaces

> * both `AppModule` and `AppModuleBasic` need to be defined which is counter-intuitive

Reviewer: WDYM?

Reviewer 2: The distinction between features on `AppModule` and `AppModuleBasic` seems arbitrary.   So does the use of the word "basic".

> * apps need to implement the full interfaces, even parts they don't need

Reviewer: Not technically, as they can define no-ops for many of them, which they do.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps then the con is: "Modules are required to supply unnecessary boilerplate to implement no-op"

Reviewer 2: Although, I _think_ some of this could be addressed with breaking refactors to `AppModule`, `AppModuleBasic`.  That is, if [AppModuleBasic](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/249643325182a85dc60d2baae7d867b1db765467/types/module/module.go#L48-L60) was decomposed into domain-specific extension interfaces.

> * interface methods depend heavily on unstable third party dependencies, in particular Tendermint

Reviewer: This isn't a con IMO

Author: Depending on particular versions of Tendermint means you can't have a module which simultaneously supports multiple SDK versions in a hypothetical world where ABCI++ exists but maybe some users are more conservative about adopting it. More generally, it means the ecosystem needs to move in fits and starts - all modules must advance together, rather than allowing a "matrix" of compatible versions. I consider this a big con. Will try to explain this a bit more in the ADR

* APIs can have long-term stability guarantees
* the SDK framework is extensible in a safe a straightforward way

The design principles of the core API are as follows:
* everything that a module wants to interact with in the state machine is a service
* all services coordinate state via `context.Context` and don't try to recreate the "bag of variables" approach of `sdk.Context`
* all independent services are isolated in independent packages with minimal APIs and minimal dependencies
* the core API should be minimalistic and designed for long-term support (LTS)
* a "runtime" module will implement all the "core services" defined by the core API and can handle all module
  functionalities exposed by the core `Handler` type
* other non-core and/or non-LTS services can be exposed by specific versions of runtime modules or other modules 
following the same design principles, this includes functionality that interacts with specific non-stable versions of
third party dependencies such as Tendermint
* the core API doesn't implement *any* functionality, it just defines types
* go stable API management principles are followed (TODO: link)

> Runtime modules which implement the core API are *intentionally* separate from the core API in order to enable more 

Reviewer 3: will this work if a user does not want to use runtime/DI?

Author: It will work without DI. If someone wants to do manual wiring, codegen requires exported providers so manual app.go is totally possible.

Runtime basically encapsulates what is now BaseApp + module manager, and will extend these and eventually replace the current implementations (what we've called BaseApp 2.0 with ABCI++, etc). I'll add a bit more text to the ADR defining this.

So runtime will be necessary, but it will be possible to wire it manually, or use DI, or DI codegen which is like manual wiring that the framework does for you.

> forks of the runtime module than is possible with the SDK's current tightly coupled `BaseApp` design while still

Reviewer 2: What could a fork of SDK's default runtime look like in practice?  Is this a code fork or is runtime to be composable so that users of the sdk can add/adjust functionality?  Is there a need for that currently (is this why osmosis forked)?

The basic `BlockInfo` service is left fairly generic to insulate the vast majority of other modules from unneeded
exposure to changes in the Tendermint protocol.

#### Gas Service

The gas `Service` and `Meter` types will be defined in the `cosmossdk.io/core/gas` package.

The gas service handles tracking of gas consumptions at the block and transaction level and also allows
for overriding the gas meter passed to child calls:
```go
package gas

type Service interface {
	GetMeter(context.Context) Meter
	GetBlockMeter(context.Context) Meter
	WithMeter(ctx context.Context, meter Meter) context.Context
	WithBlockMeter(ctx context.Context, meter Meter) context.Context
}
```

#### `grpc.ClientConnInterface`

Runtime module implementations should provide an instance of `grpc.ClientConnInterface` as core service. This service
will allow modules to send messages to and make queries against other modules as described in [ADR 033](./adr-033-protobuf-inter-module-comm.md).

A single `grpc.ClientConnInterface` will be used for both MsgClient's and QueryClient's and the state machine will

> make the presence or absence of the protobuf option `cosmos.msg.v1.service` which will be required for all

Reviewer 2: >and the state machine will make the presence or absence of the protobuf option cosmos.msg.v1.service which will be required for all valid Msg service types.

I don't understand this sentence, is there a typo or something?

Author: Yes, I'll fix

#### Example Usage

Here is an example of setting up a hypothetical `foo` v2 module which uses the [ORM](./adr-055-orm.md) for its state
management and genesis.

```go
func ProvideApp(config *foomodulev2.Module, evtSvc event.EventService, db orm.ModuleDB) (Keeper, *Handler){
	k := &Keeper{db: db, evtSvc: evtSvc}
	h := &Handler{}
	foov1.RegisterMsgServer(h, k)
    foov1.RegisterQueryServer(h, k)
	h.RegisterBeginBlocker(k.BeginBlock)
    db.RegisterGenesis(h)
    h.RegisterUpgradeHandler("foo.module.v1.Module", k.MigrateFromV1)
	return k, h
}
```

### Runtime Compatibility Version

The `core` module will define a static integer var, `cosmossdk.io/core/RuntimeCompatibilityVersion`, which is
a minor version indicator of the core module that is accessible at runtime. Correct runtime module implementations
should check this compatibility version and return an error if the current `RuntimeCompatibilityVersion` is higher
than the version of the core API that this runtime version can support. When new features are adding to the `core`
module API that runtime modules are required to support, this version should be incremented.

## Consequences

### Backwards Compatibility

> Early versions of runtime modules should aim to support as much as possible modules built with the existing

Reviewer 2: The wording here is runtime _modules_ but in practice the SDK team will implement just one, at least initially, is that right?

I'm having a hard time visualizing how runtime would straddle the current `AppModule / sdk.Context` paradigm and   the proposed composition through `Handler`.

Author: Well, I think we would implement one for the existing tendermint version, and another one once ABCI++ comes around possibly deprecating `AppModule` altogether. The legacy version might have a fairly long life span of patch updates.

As for the second part, you would just have some sort of module manager which can deal with both `AppModule` and `Handler` appropriately.

# ADR 061: Core Module API

## Changelog

* 2022-08-18 First Draft

## Status

PROPOSED Not Implemented

## Abstract

> A new core API is proposed to replace the existing `AppModule` and `sdk.Context` frameworks a set of core services

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A new core API is proposed to be added as a way to develop cosmos-sdk applications that will in the future replace the existing `AppModule` and `sdk.Context` frameworks a set of core services
```
?

to `sdk.Context`'s with a non-ergonomic unwrapping function.

Any breaking changes to these interfaces, such as ones imposed by third-party dependencies like Tendermint, have the
side effect of forcing all modules in the ecosystem to update in lock-step. This means it is almost impossible to have
a version of the module which can be run with 2 or 3 different versions of the SDK or 2 or 3 different versions of
another module. This lock-step coupling slows down overall development within the ecosystem and causes updates to
components to be delayed longer than they would if things were more stable and loosely coupled.

## Decision

The `core` API proposes a set of core APIs that modules can rely on to interact with the state machine and expose their
functionalities to it that are designed in a principled way such that:
* tight coupling of dependencies and unrelated functionalities is minimized or eliminated
* APIs can have long-term stability guarantees
* the SDK framework is extensible in a safe and straightforward way

The design principles of the core API are as follows:
* everything that a module wants to interact with in the state machine is a service

> * all services coordinate state via `context.Context` and don't try to recreate the "bag of variables" approach of `sdk.Context`

Reviewer 4: Just to understand this line: this "bag of variables" still exists, and will always exist with this new design, correct? It's just that we try our best to hide it to module developers.

As long as most keeper methods (e.g. msg server methods) have access to a `context.Context`, they can always peek into it to see all available variables, even those not exposed by said keeper's available services.

Author: Sort of, but there's no way to do a range operation over everything in a context. You need to hold a key object which can be non-forgeable.

Reviewer 4: But you can still access `sdk.Context` via the unwrap method.

Is the plan to deprecate `sdk.Context`? If yes, it's worth mentioning this in the ADR, and start adding `// Deprecated` comments on it as soon as this approach is approved by the community.

Author: For now `sdk.Context` can still be accessed via unwrap. In my mind deprecating `sdk.Context` is somewhat orthogonal because that's a runtime impl detail, but I can say something here

compatibility.

Modules which are built only against the core API don't need to know anything about which version of runtime,
`BaseApp` or Tendermint in order to be compatible. Modules from the core mainline SDK could be easily composed
with a forked version of runtime with this pattern.

This design is intended to enable matrices of compatible dependency versions. Ideally a given version of any module
is compatible with multiple versions of the runtime module and other compatible modules. This will allow dependencies
to be selectively updated based on battle-testing. More conservative projects may want to update some dependencies
slower than more fast moving projects.

### Core Services

The following "core services" are defined by the core API. All valid runtime module implementations should provide
implementations of these services to modules via both [dependency injection](./adr-057-app-wiring-1.md) and
manual wiring. The individual services described below are all bundled in a convenient `appmodule.Service`
"bundle service" so that for simplicity modules can declare a dependency on a single service.

> #### Store Services

Reviewer 4: Could you give an example of how one would do `ctx.CacheContext()` with this store service? It doesn't seem clear to me right now

Author: That's maybe something that needs to be added

Author: I think there are two ways to do this:
1. any service which can operate in cache mode offers its own API for this, i.e. `KVStore.CacheWrap`, `EventService.CacheWrap`
2. there is some way that caching happens across multiple services which is how `CacheContext` behaves now

The downside to 1, is that you need to remember to cache all 3 store types and it isn't obvious how to do this across inter-module calls. So I think we need some way to do 2, probably with a `CacheService` that has a way of notifying other services they need to cache:

```go
type CacheService interface {
  CacheContext(context.Context) context.Context)
}
```

Store services will be defined in the `cosmossdk.io/core/store` package.

The generic `store.KVStore` interface is the same as current SDK `KVStore` interface. Store keys have been refactored
into store services which, instead of expecting the context to know about stores, invert the pattern and allow
retrieving a store from a generic context. There are three store services for the three types of currently supported
stores - regular kv-store, memory, and transient:

```go
type KVStoreService interface {
    OpenKVStore(context.Context) KVStore
}

type MemoryStoreService interface {
    OpenMemoryStore(context.Context) KVStore
}
type TransientStoreService interface {
    OpenTransientStore(context.Context) KVStore
}
```

Modules can use these services like this:
```go
func (k msgServer) Send(ctx context.Context, msg *types.MsgSend) (*types.MsgSendResponse, error) {

> 	store := k.kvStoreSvc.OpenKVStore(ctx)

Reviewer 4: related to the above comment: it seems that we always do `k.{someService}.{whatWeActuallyWant}`. Most services only have 1 method. This new `.Open` seems unnecessary here.

For some of these core services: can we simplify it to simply `k.{whatWeActuallyWant}`.

```diff
type keeper struct {
	depinject.In

-	KVStoreKey       store.KVStoreService
+	KVStoreKey       store.KVStore
	BlockInfoService blockinfo.Service
-	EventService     event.Service
+	EventMgr         event.Manager
	GasService       gas.Service
}
```

Author: We still need to interact with the context to get a valid instance. Maybe the bundle service simplifies this?

Reviewer 4: Ah I see. I remember a discussion about adding the `context.Context` argument to all Get/Set/Delete/etc methods. Maybe Open is better.

Author: If there is more than one store operation in a method than open will be shorter

}
```

Just as with the current runtime module implementation, modules will not need to explicitly name these store keys,
but rather the runtime module will choose an appropriate name for them and modules just need to request the
type of store they need in their dependency injection (or manual) constructors.

#### Event Service

The event `Service` and `Manager` will be defined in the `cosmossdk.io/core/event` package.

The event `Service` gives modules access to an event `Manager` which allows modules to emit typed and legacy,
untyped events:

```go
package event
type Service interface {
    GetManager(context.Context) Manager
}

type Manager interface {
	// Emit emits events to both clients and state machine listeners. These events MUST be emitted deterministically
	// and should be assumed to be part of blockchain consensus.
    Emit(proto.Message) error

> 	

Author: The reason would be if we want to allow overriding the event manager like the current SDK context

    // and are not part of blockchain consensus.
    EmitClientOnly(proto.Message) error
}
```

Typed events emitted with `Emit` can be observed by other modules and thus must be deterministic and should be assumed
to be part of blockchain consensus (whether they are part of the block or app hash is left to the runtime to specify).

Events emitted by `EmitLegacy` and `EmitClientOnly` are not considered to be part of consensus and cannot be observed
by other modules. If there is a client-side need to add events in patch releases, these methods can be used.

Design questions:
* should we allow overriding event managers (like `sdk.Context.WithEventManager`)?

#### Block Info Service

The block info `Service` will be defined in the `cosmossdk.io/core/blockinfo` package.

The `BlockInfo` service allows modules to get a limited set of information about the currently executing block
that does not depend on any specific version of Tendermint:
```go
package blockinfo

type Service interface {
    GetBlockInfo(ctx context.Context) BlockInfo
}

type BlockInfo struct {
    ChainID string
    Height int64
    Time time.Time

>     Hash []byte

Reviewer 3: what hash is this?

I think things like IBC need other things like validatorhash and next validatorhashes.

Author: I was thinking last commit hash, but since there are multiple hashes maybe best not to include one here. IBC would probably just depend on the specific version of tm it's compatible with... unless that sort of stuff is expected to be stable enough between tm versions

Reviewer 3: I think it should be fine to include all the hashes here since its in line with the naming of the struct. If we opt not to can we add a few sentences on how to get this info

}
```

Only a limited set of modules need any other information from the Tendermint block header and specific versions
of runtime modules tied to specific Tendermint versions can expose this functionality to modules that need it.
The basic `BlockInfo` service is left fairly generic to insulate the vast majority of other modules from unneeded
exposure to changes in the Tendermint protocol.

#### Gas Service

The gas `Service` and `Meter` types will be defined in the `cosmossdk.io/core/gas` package.

The gas service handles tracking of gas consumptions at the block and transaction level and also allows
for overriding the gas meter passed to child calls:
```go
package gas

type Service interface {
	GetMeter(context.Context) Meter
	GetBlockMeter(context.Context) Meter
	WithMeter(ctx context.Context, meter Meter) context.Context

> 	WithBlockMeter(ctx context.Context, meter Meter) context.Context

Reviewer 4: IMO `WithBlockMeter` should not be in the default Gas service. It shouldn't be exposed to most module developers. Probably only runtime and maybe antehandlers should deal with BlockGas.

Author: Yeah it's worth having a discussion about. IMHO there's a lot of unsafe stuff on the current sdk.Context

address (as returned by the `Address` method).

This client can be used with both `MsgClient`'s and `QueryClient`'s and the protobuf option
`cosmos.msg.v1.service` will allow the router to detect whether a given service is a query or msg service and
route requests appropriately.

Module clients that use [ADR 028](./adr-028-public-key-addresses.md) derived module addresses
can be created using the `DerivedClient` method.

By default, all `Msg`'s registered using the core API will be available for inter-module routing. Queries will only
be exposed for inter-module routing if their `rpc` methods have the protobuf option `cosmos.query.v1.internal`
set to true.

The inter-module router will provide a unified interface for sending `Msg`'s and queries
which ensures all required pre-processing steps are uniformly executed by all modules which need such functionality.

Runtime modules may choose to allow different types of "admin" access to individual modules which may allow for
bypassing certain authentication checks. This could allow `x/authz` to allow sending messages on behalf of all
addresses, for example.

#### `appmodule.Service` Bundle Service

> To allow modules to declare a dependency on a single "bundle" service, runtime modules should provide an implementation

Reviewer 2: Is the intent with this bundled service to make adoption easier?  In the case of manual wiring I'd need to construct one service (constructor defined in `runtime`) for each module is that right?  Might be even more boilerplate than without this uber service.

Author: Yes, the intent is to make adoption easier. Not sure it'd be a lot more boilerplate. Depends on how you construct the service, but shouldn't be harder than constructing store keys

of the `appmodule.Service` interface:

```go
package appmodule

type Service interface {
	store.KVStoreService
	store.MemoryStoreService
	store.TransientStoreService
	event.Service
	blockinfo.Service
	gas.Service
    RootInterModuleClient
}
```
To maintain API compatibility, if new core services are added, a new `cosmossdk.io/coreappmodule/v2.Service` should

> be added which extends this service and bundles the new core services, ex:

Reviewer 2: Historically how often has this happened? Seems like a big downside of this approach.

Author: Not really sure, but why is it a big downside? We just bump the version

Reviewer 2: As a user of the Cosmos SDK it would make upgrading to a new core API version more of a refactor and therefore more cumbersome, no?

Author: Why? They just need to change the import

Reviewer 2: Changing a `go.mod` import is less work than changing a `go.mod` import and import statements across `.go.` files, which is required since the package is now `v2`.  Maybe "big" drawback should be modified to "minor" drawback.

Author: Why do you need to change so many imports? You only need to change imports that require the new service

Reviewer 2: On reflection I guess it's no more work than updating a method signature to support a new service.  In fact it's probably easier to change an import statement than a func sig.  Am I thinking about this right?

Author: I think so

    Services []ServiceImpl
	
	DefaultGenesis func(GenesisTarget)
    ValidateGenesis func(GenesisSource) error
    InitGenesis func(context.Context, GenesisSource) error
    ExportGenesis func(context.Context, GenesisTarget)

    BeginBlocker func(context.Context) error
	EndBlocker func(context.Context) error
	
	EventListeners []EventListener
	
	UpgradeHandlers []UpgradeHandler
}
```

A struct as opposed to an interface has been chosen for the following reasons:
* it is always possible to add new fields to a struct without breaking backwards compatibility
* it is not necessary to populate all fields in a struct, whereas interface methods must always be implemented
* compared to extension interfaces, struct fields are more explicit

Helper methods will be added to the `Handler` struct to simplify construction of more complex fields.

#### `MsgServer` and `QueryServer` registration

The `Handler` struct type will implement `grpc.ServiceRegistrar` interface which will allow for registering
`MsgServer` and `QueryServer` implementations directly with the `Handler` struct like this:
```go
    h := &appmodule.Handler{}
	types.RegisterMsgServer(h, keeper.NewMsgServerImpl(am.keeper))

> 	types.RegisterQueryServer(h, am.keeper)

Author: What extension interface would you propose for registering services, events listeners and upgrade handlers? I remember some people not like the current Configurator approach. 

The advantage of a struct is that it's explicit about what is supported whereas with extension interfaces you're sort of guessing about whether some other component will type cast and handle it.

> 	types.RegisterQueryServer(h, am.keeper)

Reviewer 4: I was thinking a bunch of small interfaces like

```go
package appmodule

type HasMsgServer interface {
  RegisterMsgService(s grpc.Server)
}

type HasGrpcServer interface {
  RegisterGrpcService(s grpc.Server)
}

type HasMigrations interface {
  RegisterMigrations() map[uint]MigrationHandler // `map` is maybe not ideal, maybe a more well-defined struct as return type
}

type HasEventListeners interface {
  RegisterEventListeners() map[string]EventHandler // string == proto full name of typed event
}
```

Then, at a glance we can know what a module does:

```go
// in x/{...}/module.go
var (
  appmodule.AppModule      = AppModule{}
  appmodule.HasMsgServer   = AppModule{}
  appmodule.HasGrpcServer  = AppModule{}
  appmodule.HasMigrations  = AppModule{}
)
```

> 	types.RegisterQueryServer(h, am.keeper)

Reviewer 4: > The advantage of a struct is that it's explicit about what is supported whereas with extension interfaces you're sort of guessing about whether some other component will type cast and handle it.

True, there would need to be good docs on all available extension interfaces if we go this way. On the other hand, it's less invasive IMO compared to the status quo.

> 	types.RegisterQueryServer(h, am.keeper)

Author: I don't really have a strong preference. I'd like a good enough design we can agree on

> 	types.RegisterQueryServer(h, am.keeper)

Author: If we do extension interfaces, I agree that minimal is better

```

Service registrations will be stored in the `Handler.Services` field using the `ServiceImpl` struct:
```go
type ServiceImpl struct {
	Desc *grpc.ServiceDesc
	Impl interface{}
}
```

Because of the `cosmos.msg.v1.service` protobuf option, required for `Msg` services, the same handler struct can be
used to register both `Msg` and query services.

#### Genesis

The genesis `Handler` functions - `DefaultGenesis`, `ValidateGenesis`, `InitGenesis` and `ExportGenesis` - are specified
against the `GenesisSource` and `GenesisTarget` interfaces which will abstract over genesis sources which may be single

> JSON files or collections of JSON objects that can be efficiently streamed. They will also include helper functions for

Reviewer 3: why both proto and json? why not only proto to align with proto use in the repo?

Author: What about cases where things can't be modeled as single proto objects or if people want to use different encodings for some reason? IMHO better to be more permissive, but make it as convenient as possible.

interacting with genesis data represented by single `proto.Message` types.

```go
type GenesisSource interface {
	ReadMessage(proto.Message) error
	OpenReader(field string) (io.ReadCloser, error)

> 	ReadRawJSON() (json.RawMessage, error)

Reviewer 3: we should opt to use one and abstract the other, this is more boiler plate for users

Author: Why is it more boilerplate? The user doesn't implement this interface, they just use it how they like.

#### Begin and End Blockers

The `BeginBlock` and `EndBlock` methods will simply take a `context.Context`, because:
* most modules don't need Tendermint information other than `BlockInfo` so we can eliminate dependencies on specific
Tendermint versions
* for the few modules that need Tendermint block headers and/or return validator updates, specific versions of the
runtime module will provide specific functionality for interacting with the specific version(s) of Tendermint
supported

In order for `BeginBlock`, `EndBlock` and `InitGenesis` to send back validator updates and retrieve full Tendermint
block headers, the runtime module for a specific version of Tendermint could provide services like this:
```go
type ValidatorUpdateService interface {
	SetValidatorUpdates(context.Context, []abci.ValidatorUpdate)
}

type BeginBlockService interface {
	GetBeginBlockRequest(context.Context) abci.RequestBeginBlock 
}
```

We know these types will change at the Tendermint level and that also a very limited set of modules actually need this
functionality, so they are intentionally kept out of core to keep core limited to the necessary, minimal set of stable
APIs.

#### Event Listeners

> Handlers allow event listeners for typed events to be registered that will be called deterministically whenever those

Reviewer 3: what about legacy events?

Author: This design doesn't allow for listening to legacy events, just typed events. My reasoning is that those events weren't formalized in a way to make them relevant to state machine consumers, so we should assume they're intended for clients only

Reviewer 4: I also agree limiting state-machine events to only typed events is desirable. It can also be seen as an extra motivation to migrate to typed events asap (pending perf fixes).

Reviewer 3: will runtime still support legacy events?

Author: Yes, there is an `EmitLegacy` method so that these types of events are supported for perpetuity

Event listeners for typed events can be added to the handler struct either by populating the `EventListeners` field
or using generic helper methods:
```go
appmodule.AddEventListener(handler, func (ctx context.Context, e *EventReceive)) { ... })
```

Event listeners provide a standardized alternative to module hooks, such as `StakingHooks`, even though these hooks
are still supported and described in [ADR 057: App Wiring](./adr-057-app-wiring-1.md)

Only one event listener per event type can be defined per module. Event listeners will be called in a deterministic
order based on alphabetically sorting module names. If a more customizable order is desired, additional parameters
to the runtime module config object can be added to support optional custom ordering.

Only events emitted using `EventManager.Emit` are observable using event listeners.

#### Upgrade Handlers

Upgrade handlers can be specified using the `UpgradeHandlers` field that takes an array of `UpgradeHandler` structs:
```go
type UpgradeHandler struct {
	FromModule protoreflect.FullName
	Handler func(context.Context) error
}
```

> In the [ADR 057: App Wiring](./adr-057-app-wiring-1.md) it is specified that each version of each module should be

Reviewer 3: can you provide an example of non DI way of doing this.

Author: Will get to that... It will be easier once codegen is wrapped up because there are some API changes needed to our current setup
